### Project Overview & MVP
#### JAN 9 2017

[Back](./)

##### Game play

**Actions**

The following commands will be available for the initial Wombats release.

```clj
{:move-forward   {:description "Moves unit one space forward."}
 :move-backwards {:description "Moves unit one space backwards maintaining current orientation."}
 :turn-right     {:description "Rotates the units orientation 90° clockwise."}
 :turn-left      {:description "Rotates the units orientation 90° counter clockwise."}
 :shoot          {:description "Emits a flame from the unit"}
 :smoke          {:description "Emits smoke form the unit"}}
```

**Arena Elements**

```clj
{:wombat        {:description "Human player."}
 :zakano        {:description "Enemy AI."}
 :wood-barrier  {:description "Barrier."}
 :steel-barrier {:description "Indestructible Barrier."}
 :flame         {:description "Byproduct of shoot command, causes damage."}
 :smoke         {:description "Byproduct of smoke command, obscures visibility."}
 :fog           {:description "Fog of war."}
 :food          {:description "Food, increases HP."}
 :poison        {:description "Poison, decreases HP."}
 :open          {:description "Open space."}}
```

Additional information about each command and arena elements can be found in the [documentation](./docs/home.md).

##### On-boarding

It was decided that without some sort of on boarding, we felt that users may become overwhelmed and lose interest in Wombats. To address this concern, a few ideas have been purposed.

**Live Mode**

This idea would allow users to gain an understanding of the game mechanics before coding their Wombat. The following are some additional Pros to this idea.

- Designing the game with live in mind will allow us to have playtesting to make sure that the game is actually fun to  play.
- It will give users a way to develop strategies b/c they can learn what works well by playing themselves.
- It will easily expose users to the fundamentals of Wombats (setup will be minimal since they can jump right in playing live).
- If we design thinking of live from the beginning, we can always add it later knowing it will work. If we don't think  about live until later, then it probably won't be a good experience.
- Opens up more touranment types. humans vs bots, bots vs bots, and humans vs humans.
- Will ensure that the game mechanics don't get overly complicated.

**Tutorial Mode**

This approach would allow users to incrementally step through levels that pose different challenges to not only learn how Wombats works, but learn Clojure along the way. It would also give users a fully functional Wombat by the end of the tutorial.

In the end, after looking back at our project goals and discussing the pros and cons of each, we decided to opt for Tutorial Mode. The fear is that by providing a public Live mode, some of the goals may get lost or overshadowed.

##### In Game Chat

We're already going to have a working socket framework in place and it would be trivial to add socket support for in game chat.

##### Score / Ranking System

It is still TBD to what this would look like, but it should be flushed out prior to the v1 launch since;

1. it would be far easier on development to have these considerations in mind when implementing end game logic.
1. users would be rewarded for the work they put in from the beginning.

##### User Management

See Zeplin

##### Admin Create / Manage game types & games

See Zeplin

##### Game Lobby

See Zeplin

##### Wombat Management

See Zeplin
